So we saw how we can build and deploy an app with expo in the managed workflow which was pretty convenient.
Now let's say we have an app for example built with the React Native seal I hear I'm not using any native
modules but if I were I would have of course have updated my android and I was configuration files to
request the right permissions and so on and I showed all of that in the non Expo module earlier in the
course.
So now let's say we're happy with the app and we want to publish it to the Apple App Store into Google
Play store.
Now do you officially react native talks are a great place to get started with that they're in the documentation
under a guides you all to find is running on the Vice Guide where you can learn how you build your app
for IWM or Android on the different operating systems you might be working on important.
You can only build for I guess on Mac OS now Linux and Windows don't work because now we're not building
the app in the cloud as we did with Expo but locally on our machine and there Apple has this restriction
that you can only build I apps on a Mac.
It is what it is.
So now what you need now is an apple developer account right now and not necessarily a paid one just
to build the app.
However if you want to build it for the app stores you need a paid one.
As mentioned earlier this module so you should set up such a.
Apple Developer account and then open your project here your eyes project to be precise with X code
there you can click open a number project go into your project folder there to the Iaw folder and there
select is XY workspace folder or file here to open doors with X code.
This opens your project your IOW project which includes your react native code of course in X code no
it's there where you now configure this app where you set up your identifier for example that's this
inverse you are Ella was talking about which could be calm that academy and Dot are n no Expo test something
like this where you set a version numbers which your users will see and your build number which can
simply be a number that you increment here where you should choose automatically manage signing and
where you now need to choose a team which should be shown here if not add an account and there log in
with your Apple I.D. to add your apple developer account as an account here and there often you should
be able to choose your team here which will be required for automatically signing the app which will
then be done by Apple.
So to say you can in general configure your app here of course and prepared for deployment.
And one important configuration is of course related to the icons you want to use in Expo.
We set up the icons conveniently in a configuration and expo generated all the icons for us.
Now it won't work like this.
Now you need to set up these icons on your own and you do this by clicking on this arrow here which
takes you to the assets catalog and there you can now provide icons and you need to provide icons in
different sizes here as you can tell.
Obviously that was a convenient thing by Expo.
It did create these icons for you and you didn't have to manually create all these icons attached however
you find the icons zip file which includes icons you can drag and drop in here.
So that's what all now do and the icons are labeled such that it should be clear what you have to drag
where and with that you got the icons configured.
You also might want to configure the launch screen for that you can expand this folder and there you
find this launch screen CIB file does in the end allows you to customize your long screen there you
can add new widgets to it drag images into a changed text you see here for example and configured to
launch screen in general you can learn more about this in the X code docs of course and once you did
configure all of that you can build your app here for that you can also for example test it on a simulator
first by choosing a simulator where you and then clicking the play button here and this will now build
your app and run it on a simulator and thereafter of course you can also build it for deployment.
Let's just see where design all works it launches it is bundler process which you already saw earlier.
For it is standalone app because of course that's still part of development experience here.
It's still a wreck native app after all which you use for building does native app and now it is succeeded
and it launches the app on a simulator.
Now I'm not too interested in the app there because I will only have a very basic app there which doesn't
do anything fancy but this proves that building works.
Knowing the official docs if you scroll down further still and is running on the Y section you also
learn how to build your app for production.
If it's an on Expo app and there we have got two important things to do.
The first important thing is that in our project you hear by clicking on this folder and then on this
I can hear you expand this folder and then go to the info P list and now there you'll find this app
transport security settings key.
This kind of controls how ISIS controls to which Web pages or web servers your app may talk and by default.
It only allows access to H2 P S servers so SSL Secure in service.
That's a good default but you might have some exceptions which you can add here.
And one exception in the exception domains list is local host.
Now that's required for development because your react native app in the end talks to this development
server here which runs on your local host.
Which is not using SSL normally IAW would block this.
Now to not block it this is the exceptions list to build this for production.
You should remove this.
You can simply clear this key here by removing it with the delete key and that's a that's one thing
you should configure for deployment and then you need to configure such a release scheme for that you'd
go to product scheme added scheme and set this from debug to release here for a run and then close this
with that you can now run product build here to build your app.
And now this is built for release built for production so it's optimized and so on.
So this builds your app now for production.
Now wants this build runs.
Let's make sure we can also upload it to the Apple App Store.
And for this you should go to your Apple Developer account and here you now definitely need a paid account
and there you now need to set up a couple of things you need to go to certificates I.D. and profiles
here and go to identifiers.
And then here add a new app I.D. just here.
The first setting at an app idea and you need to add the app I.D. which is set up in your project.
So the app IDC bundle identifier you find here dead exact identifier needs to be added here you can
add a description R and demo whatever you want but then here you need to add this I.D. Now you can check
any special capabilities your app requires which my app doesn't.
So I don't need to check anything there and then I can continue confirmed as and register.
Now this is required.
Otherwise you won't be able to publish your app.
Now with that I.D. registered you need to go to iTunes Connect and you can simply google for that which
isn't the end the service where you create that store page and where you now in your queue will set
up your app there you can go to my apps and add a new app here by clicking the plus new app here.
By the way you also see the app we built with expo so click new app here I give it a name like r n no
Expo which of course is a beautiful name.
Which you wouldn't really want to use but it's good for us here.
Then choose your language your building your app for choose to bundle I.D. and there choose to I.D..
You just set up.
If it's not showing up yet come back a couple of minutes later it will be there then you can then also
add your own custom identifier which will show up on your invoice as basically ends on our end no Expo
whatever you want and click Create and this now creates the app here in I iTunes Connect.
This is an all where you can manage your app for the app store and set it up set up its pricing and
so on.
Now with all of that done let's wait for our bill to finish here and if it failed like it did for me.
Reason for that is you need to set us to generic IOW device so make sure you have this set.
Also make sure to add on this our end without export test you select your development team that's the
number error I got here.
If you're still getting an error as IDE you press command 1 here in X code click on build settings here
with all these things selected as you see it here.
In the linking section which you'll find if you scroll down a bit and in the debt code stripping part
here under release set this from yes to no.
This is a work around around this era which seems to be related to the automatic tests which are set
up and once it did this tried again run the build one more time and now this should succeed Wednesday's
build exceed that you can go back to product and now the archive option is available.
If you now run this this archives your app which is nothing else than building that bundle which previously
was built on exposed cloud servers.
So let's wait for this to finish.
Once this is done.
You should see your archive for archives as you are and the process more than once here and now here
you could distribute your app to the App Store with the configurations made on iTunes Connect and so
on which has showed earlier.
No I'll not do this here but this is how you would deploy your react native only app without Expo managed.